I'm gonna talk through a few different
projects that I've done that led me to
blockchain so this is the first one
because there's a sample of those couple
things so I want to give a little kind
of context for what's in the exhibition
space next door and the first thing came
from a show that I did at the serpentine
gallery in London called products for
organizing back in 2015 and this is when
I first made artwork about Bach chained
and yeah I tried to do a show which was
kind of framing a history of Hecker LED
innovation as products for management so
kind of like diagram and illustrate that
path from from hacking to innovation in
and out of institutions and
organizations and companies so I made a
series of server X cultures like the one
that you see in here this one is - the
hackathon and I tried to kind of make
that into a sort of a history of hacking
in a in a kind of museum style
presentation and yeah hacking is kind of
as a way of working I thought had been
applied to many different contexts and
systems and technologies this was one -
hacking their phone systems and then
there was 1/4 legitimacy hack which was
all about how a group of people who were
in loft heavy loft industries spoke at
the Senate which I thought it was an
amazing moment inside and outside of
legal ink at commercial and state
organizations and yeah so I was kind of
kind of making like products almost that
repackaged a version of that history as
products and put them alongside a
selection of formalized organizations
workplaces that celebrates similar
values from the GCHQ to Apple so yeah I
did a bunch of sculptures to those
buildings as well but what was cool is
that yeah some people who are in that
community and who are in this community
kind of came to visit it so this guy Joe
grand who was part of loft Heavy
Industries came and made his own kind of
blog response to it took photographs as
himself next to the artwork which he was
featured in which is really cool and
then he took a photo of of this artwork
that you see in the next room which was
all about my first foray into
Punk and kind of like trying to track
what what kind of codes code breaking in
code making and in cryptography was to
hackers in that space so that's where
that workers slightly out of context
that led me on to a longer project
called blockchain future stage which
they did for the disks Berlin Biennale
in 2016 and I did it in this building in
Berlin which is where I live I don't
live in this building I live in Berlin
but the people lived in this building
for a while because it was a communist
building and it was actually the head
yeah was like they're kind of
headquarters for the Communist Party
during the GDR period and now it's a
business school
would you believe which is beautifully
poetic I'm interested in politics and
the forms around politics and so what
was great is well about this building is
that it's half the business school and
it was just half empty so me and the
disc curators managed to kind of wrangle
them down to let us put on part of our
part of the Biennale in the empty part
of this former communist building and
yeah it was the perfect scene for my
explorations into blockchain so I made
in this building in the kind of in the
other half of it in this room a kind of
a fake trade fair for four different
blockchain companies that I saw emerging
in 2016 and I wanted to kind of like do
it as a sort of a diagram for some of
the ideology and kind of ambitions of
what was going on in the blockchain
space which I saw as kind of mini and
various so it shows three examples to
put in there and as you'll notice in the
background this is quite amazing mural
which is actually from the original
buildings usage and it's it's done by a
prominent communist artist from that
period who did a lot of the metalwork
around Berlin and it's kind of like it
yeah a dove flying over industry so kind
of piece delivered by industry which i
think is something which resonated also
with some of the ambitions of the
blockchain community that i tried to
formulate so the first company that I
used was digital asset yeah coming out
of the finance industry Blythe masters
legendary finance submission person she
was involved in yeah many many things
but work for JPMorgan in the early 90s
when they were kind of yeah remaking and
redesigning derivatives and stuff like
that so she was involved in securities
and derivatives design but she just kind
of come out in 2016 to kind of like blow
the blockchain space away and I thought
the potential for what she was doing was
something like preserving and
consolidating the current market
structures but I'm kind of automating
using blockchain and the booth I
designed for her kind of try to
sculpturally interpret that so it's
quite a conservative booth it's quite a
kind of yeah how would you say it like I
sort of used as a Bank aesthetic it uses
graphics which kind of come off
traditional money designs and at the
center of each of the booths I wanted to
design a kind of a product that I
thought would encompass some of what was
happening in the geopolitical space
around blockchain and I decided that
designing a series of postage stamps
would be a cool way to do that so it's
as if each company had kind of designed
a postage sent that they were using to
promote their vision for the future of
the world and so I designed to prote
postage stamp set to do this I have to
say I worked with a really amazing
postage stamp designer from Germany who
was who was working on German postage
stamp design and her name is Linda Kent
chef and she blew my head away at the
different conventions that are in
postage stamp design but we had a lot of
fun doing it and and the postage stamp
that we designed for Bly it was based on
a very conservative postage stamp which
is obviously like the Queen's Head
except this one came kind of came in to
the head sort of makes a sort of
centralized network diagram leading
right to the Fed so there was a that was
what we thought for that one the second
person in the second company that I
focused on is 21 Inc which is now
defunct
but those of you in the blockchain will
know Balaji and his work well I thought
the potential for that was the his idea
was that that the market becomes
inseparable from communication
and he kind of has a kind of tech leg
post-national free-market vision and
there's lots of talks like the one here
that he did famous one at Y Combinator
talking about exiting the world and yeah
blockchain being Bitcoin actually being
a big part of that so yeah Balaji's
booth is a little more decentralized it
has a little more kind of like Oakland
space to it it's a little more
asymmetrical compared to the banking one
and the kind of graphic design is a bit
more kind of kind of Street and and yeah
it has the kind of Bitcoin computer that
he had there and a bunch of kind of
slogans that I distilled from his
Twitter stream so Bitcoin is a protocol
that enables a true global free market
and when soft wage the world voice your
dissent in the nationalist land below or
exit to the global technologist cloud
above which is something that you guys
here will be knowledgeable about as well
and the stamp yeah it was a kind of more
kind of yeah more jaunty free kind of
like looking thing where the cloud was
formed by these blockchain computers
over at this part of the world Silicon
Valley yeah free as in free market
another joke that people probably
understand who yeah anyway theory em was
the third pick and in 2016 I have to say
like aetherium wasn't so prominent as it
became after that I mean certainly the
value wasn't so prominent and yeah lots
of jokes about how much it cost me to
make this exhibition compared to if I
just bought a theorem at the time we
won't go there but anyway so for that
one I did this thing where I thought
this was the most radical presentation
that I wanted to do so instead of like
building a booth I actually got
permission to rip open the carpet to
produce the booth cut a hole in the in
the in the communist space and and got a
graffiti writer to come and kind of tag
on the branding on the underside of the
of the space there and yeah the the
stamp I design was kind of like a stamp
that aid itself it's sort of hairs or
perforations going all over the space
and yeah some familiar figures in the
background paul baran there but also a
fan Mises and Hayek
looming over the background there
blockchain for alternative governance
and yeah what was really cool about that
exhibition as well at the time this is
something for those of you who don't
spend so much time in Berlin won't know
but it's a nice little tidbit out out
the window you see a construction site
and that's actually a reconstruction of
a Prussian Palace that they're doing
right now and they bold another amazing
communist building to build that again
so this idea of kind of what physical
what design structures mean politically
was like really very prison in their
presentation so I wanted to kind of do
more work around these companies and and
I wanted to kind of make it a little bit
more portable so didn't need the common
in this building to kind of like
understand all the references so I
thought hmm
what what are kind of things that can
take that away and I thought I thought a
great space for diagramming and and
telling narratives was redesigning
editions of board games and I thought
risk was a great one for blockchain
there are lots of cool additions of risk
including this really dope one for Star
Wars but it's like literally hundreds of
these things and I wanted to do like a
Star Wars no I wanted to do a risk
addition for the three different
blockchain companies and I made kind of
giant display versions of them this is
the one for both masters and it's called
capital master capital markets
blockchain conquest
I wrote a series of rules so in risk
capital markets box chain conquest you
battle competing enterprise software
companies to streamline outdated IT
systems lay off bookkeepers and provide
the best blockchain technology solutions
the goal is simple to conquer the world
one financial capital at a time until
you're the only digital financial
services provider left on the map and
with this risk design I actually kind of
instead of countries you actually only
have financial capitals so like instead
of several countries actually so the
entire Southeast Asia is Sydney for
example and yeah etc etc I also reskin
doll the Army's involved so you have an
individual banker modeled on Blyth as
your kind of single piece your your more
substantial piece would be the federal
bank and then the corporate Tower is
most heaviest piece of artillery you
have this kind of dice system as well
fiat currency versus kind of regulation
as you attack and defend yeah for the
second one for Pilar geez one I did yeah
blockchain conquest tech venture and
yeah this one you had instead of instead
of like a whole global market you had on
onshore and offshore and you would kind
of build up into the cloud so you had a
vertical element to it as well and so
you can see these kind of plexiglass
cloud elements that go there and yeah
each sector was only a kind of a sector
of a market so geography had gone it was
only markets onshore and offshore yeah
you have yeah that's right you have that
whoops you have the nationalist land
versus the technologies cloud of course
yeah going from his tweet stream wait a
minute oh there we go
so yeah in risk tech venture blockchain
conquest the goal is simple colonize the
cloud faster than your competitors with
Silicon Valley solutions to outmoded
sectors of life and economy once you've
moved your tech ventures beyond
nationalist Borders scale them to mass
market and be the first to build a
self-sufficient society run entirely on
the latest tech you have your visionary
founder there you have your blockchain
computer and you have your decentralized
network pieces and you have your fiat
currency versus poker chips versions of
cryptocurrency as you as you as your
divided dice there last one and closest
to the Star Wars Edition as you might
see in the design is yeah space is the
place you know the earth is gone and
there's only a kind of idealized
geometry left instead of geography so
this is this particular I'm sure people
who know about math and geography will
recognize this design but there's just
depth on the on this idealized space of
geography OG on geometry rather yeah in
risk crypto anarchists blockchain
conquest you compete other libertarian
crypto collectives to develop the most
radically decentralized modes of
Commerce and governance the goal is
simple occupied all the decentralized
application def nodes on the ethereum
blockchain platform before your
competitors and what's the new world
form from the rubble of the old
you have a futurist warrior a an alien
made out of the 4chan github and reddit
logos smash together and and a and a
kind of a aetherium spaceship there as
your players and you have your um your
crypto token plus I'm just just magic
card like figures as you as your other
dice yeah so after thinking about what
these corporate well not corporate but
kind of different developments were on
the blockchain I read this book by
Jonathan pillow which is one of the more
optimistic theorists around what
blockchain might be that I could find
because I wanted to kind of look at what
a utopia might look like in a more
granulated way which is yeah and I read
this great quote from him what if that
were possible to use cryptocurrency and
computational metrics create value
abstraction without value extraction
what if the expressivity of financial
media could be made to an express an
anti-capitalist message and create
cooperative platforms what if it were
becoming possible through a
democratization of financial tools and
decolonization of finance to redefine
what was valued and I thought oh great
so then I thought of another kind of
board game I could throw it onto and I
thought game of life would be a
wonderful one also because you know what
the other game of life is the Conway's
Game of Life I thought that was like a
cute thing to look at what the life of
the future might look like yeah I did a
bunch of drawings and collages based on
that centralization decentralization
themed
things and I came across this ya
computer computer network protocols or
from computer magazine 1979 which is
something that I come to some comes
across a lot but it looks a lot like the
board game design for Game of Life so in
my collage for this I kind of over
printed the - and that's what you see
out there in the space as well except I
did a couple of different versions so
this is the ideal decentralized
post-scarcity future of the crypto
governance fantasy board game version of
game of life it has lots of different
moments on there where you kind of can
redefine value and
yeah encodes social smart contracts I
tried to pontificate on exactly what all
the best possible alternatives could be
out there on on the different different
ya squares for what an idealized world
in the way of Bella might look like and
you can kind of read the details out
there because we literally have the
piece yeah so all users are owners
there's an encoded social smart contract
yeah there's a crypto post post scarcity
etc etc and then I thought though in the
background they were also kind of going
to be ghosts to this idealized system so
this is one of the ghosts the possible
inventor of of game theory who's
obviously important for for crypto world
so a ghost of John von Neumann is is
floating over the top a ghost of this
guy Mori Rothbard is also floating over
the top a ghost of this lady is also
floating over the top with with the
actualized self and Timothy may also are
in the background so yeah this is the
version that you see out here in in the
hallway as the haunted ideal
decentralized post-scarcity future with
the ghosts of crypto governance fantasy
over the top of it yeah and that's where
you see these guys floating and I just
want to leave you kind of with one idea
because there's a lot of thought about
of utopia and kind of modeling utopia
another project which I won't talk about
I did recently in my home country of New
Zealand which took what is it Settlers
of Catan a very popular game also with
Reid Hoffman it's read off man's
favorite game but I remodeled that to
look at some of the possible yeah
narratives around yeah neocolonialism
and utopia in in in this in the Silicon
Valley space and in crypto and and
things like that and there's this kind
of quite great story that Mark O'Connell
wrote when he came down and spent some
time with me and some other people in
New Zealand and talked to people about
why there's fantasies to New Zealand of
a kind of like post
yeah post post utopia world sometimes
and in that he talked to this quite
amazing thinker
Kyle
quinces who is a kind of top Maori
indigenous scholar and New Zealand's and
she said any invocation of New Zealand
as a utopia is a giant red flag
particularly to Molly that is the
language of emptiness and isolation that
was always used about New Zealand during
colonial times she said and it was
always she stressed a narrative that
erased the presence of those who were
already here so I think when we're kind
of thinking about yeah idealized futures
and different ways of governance and
different systems that can enable that
it's also important to think about some
of the negatives of what that type of
thinking produced in the past thank you
very much for listening
[Applause]